keep secret under the cover of this
Research Institute in Oslo the very
first negotiations between the Palestine
Liberation Organization of yasar Arafat
and Israel took place soon after the
peace deal was made Arafat visited the
office this is here and in the I think
definely in this room so this when it
was a large room his chair must have
been around where my table is the Oslo
Accords Were Meant To End Israel's
occupation and eventually lead to a
Palestinian state
instead the occupation became more
entrenched illegal Israeli settlements
multiplied and violence increased more
people today I think would be of the
opinion that it might have done
harm
um so no we're not proud the historic
agreement was signed here in secret at
the government guest house after
midnight on August the 20th 1993 But as
time went on it became clear that the
Accord was doomed to fail three decades
later peace is further away than ever
before but still Norway believes it's
possible and learning from its mistakes
has now taken a different approach after
trying for years to negotiate with its
key Ally Israel to abide by the Oslo
Accords Norway has decided to focus on
the Palestinian side instead and oo 2.0
is an upgrade uh and and and one of the
adjustment to make this more relevant in
2024 is that recognition of Palestine
happens at an earlier stage that what
was originally planned that does not
mean that we have an end of the war in
sight right now but we because Israel is
not on board because isra Israel under
this current government uh is uh not on
board but Israel is also increasingly
isolated uh right now A researcher who
has long been critical of the Oslo
Accord says Norway's recognition of
Palestine is a big shift intention from
the Norwegian side and from the other
European countries is to send a strong
signal to the world to Israel to the
Americans that look we need to solve
this conflict peacefully and a two-state
solution is the only bad solution we
actually do have among all the other
even worse one of Europe's Most sparsely
populated countries trying to solve one
of the world's most complicated
conflicts for now Norway hopes more
countries in Europe will follow it and
recognize Palestinian statehood as well
step fast in alzer
Oslo make sure to subscribe to our
channel to get the latest news from Al
jazer